well howdy there and I know the people
it's begun so tonight we're gonna talk
about one of my favorite subjects
planting your yard and I just realized
I'm doing this right after that
recession video there's another hidden
meaning there I don't think anybody's
gonna have to survive in this matter I
don't think it's gonna get that bad it's
just near springtime and this is
something I like to advocate and remind
people of early so they can do it so
[Applause]
growing your own food in your yard
raspberries blackberries we've already
got a bunch of growing got these because
my kids enjoyed doing it we'll plant
those tomorrow it'll take us we've got a
couple more 10-15 minutes and then
they'll watch them grow and it's an
experience for everybody involved and
it's it's beyond that and it's beyond
the food security aspect of it yeah you
know you've got food in your yard if
things go really bad and you end up
snacking on this instead of garbage your
kids get to see you that you know food
doesn't always come out of a window in a
brown paper bag with golden arches on it
and then they end up wanting to eat
fruit and vegetables because they grow
it beyond even all of that there's the
added fostering of self-reliance in
yourself did you see what you can do you
know it's the us we're all the sons of
the pioneers and it's a thing that we're
losing a lot of people say they don't
have the yard for it you probably do and
some people have no yard a lot of this
can be done in containers I've grown
blackberry in containers you can do
potatoes in a trash can it's just a
matter of wanting to do it and wanting
that experience
so you have the food security you have
the time spent with your kids you have
the eating healthier the exercise that
goes along with it the fostering of
self-reliance then you end up with a
fostering of community I've got a couple
of lemon trees that are just mutants
they produce more lemons than any five
families could ever use so we give them
out to the neighbors and it fosters that
community spirit you know these are
neighbors that I don't talk to nearly as
much as I should but it's there
there's there's that little exchange and
I think that's something we're missing
and it's not a nostalgia nobody talks to
their neighbors anymore it's beyond that
it helps realize a lot of things you
turn on the TV you read the news
whatever the world kind of end we're
head our throats we're on the verge of
Civil War Red Team Blue team go no we're
not
not really those are people in power
keeping us divided those people in your
neighborhood they're your neighbors
nothing more they're not the enemy
it helps foster that community spirit
and if that community spirit grows
strong enough doesn't matter or what the
idiots in DC tell tell us to do because
if your community is strong enough you
can ignore it it doesn't matter it
ceases to be there's a lot of reasons to
do this
and the least of which is actually the
30 40 bucks you're gonna save on food
here you end up liking it you know it
starts off my case I'm gonna plan a
couple apple trees the next thing you
know you've got a dozen fruit trees
grapes pineapples all kinds of stuff
growing half of it just to see if you
could and it's not hard they're the real
secret is finding plants that are in
your USDA growing zone there's a chart
you get the right plants and you plant
them at the right time that's really all
there is to it a lot of times people
make it harder than it is or people want
to grow things that don't necessarily
grow where they live
there's always something that you can do
with this and the more you experiment
with it
the more you enjoy it you know and I
know people that have pulled out those
decorative shrubs by their house and
planted raspberries you know the purpose
of those bushes to keep people away from
your windows and promise you if you
don't know you've never gone into a
raspberry bush nobody wants to and if
they do they will leave their DNA on
those thorns that promise I don't
advocate a whole lot and say this is
something everybody should do if they
can this is something everybody should
do if they can plant your yard anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
night